Gated content (#208)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/config/gated-content.mdx

---
title: Gated content
description: Learn how to implement gated content for assets that are not managed by Adobe Commerce.
---

import Diagram from '@components/Diagram.astro';
import OptionsTable from '@components/OptionsTable.astro';
import Callouts from '@components/Callouts.astro';
import Tasks from '@components/Tasks.astro';
import Task from '@components/Task.astro';
import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';

You might want to restrict access to certain content, such as videos, images, or pages on your site that is not managed by Adobe Commerce. This content resides on the edge and cannot be controlled using customer segments or other Commerce functionality. You can restrict access to these non-Commerce assets using gated content. 

> ## Key concepts

Reviewer: For the sake of consistency, I recommend using the "vocabulary" pattern using the `<Vacabulary>` component: https://github.com/commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront/blob/develop/src/content/docs/get-started/index.mdx?plain=1#L64C1-L86

There several key concepts to know to implement this feature.

* **Authentication**: The customer must be logged in. Gated content cannot be accessed by anonymous users.

* **Define the gated content**: In most cases, you will define the path to the gated content in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file. This file contains a list of URLs that are gated and defines a key/value pair for your custom code to evaluate. (You can also hardcode URLs in your custom code, but this information is easier to maintain in the spreadsheet.) The spreadsheet contains three columns:

  * `url` - The path to the gated content. Wildcards are supported.
  * `key` - Any key that you want to use to evaluate whether the content is gated.
  * `value` - `True` or other value to be evaluated.

> * **Create custom code**. CDNs typically do not provide the ability to evaluate whether a user is authenticated. As a result, you must implement an auxiliary service, such as Fastly Compute, Amazon Lambda, or Cloudflare workers to perform the evaluation. This code must be able to send an authentication request to Adobe Commerce and process the result. The request is typically a simple GraphQL query, such as the `customer` query, but you can use any query or mutation that checks if the customer is authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Create custom code**: CDNs typically do not provide the ability to evaluate whether a user is authenticated. As a result, you must implement an auxiliary service, such as Fastly Compute, Amazon Lambda, or Cloudflare workers to perform the evaluation. This code must be able to send an authentication request to Adobe Commerce and process the result. The request is typically a simple GraphQL query, such as the `customer` query, but you can use any query or mutation that checks if the customer is authenticated.
```

## Workflow

The following diagram illustrates the workflow when gated content is enabled.

<Diagram caption="Gated content workflow">
![Gated content workflow](@images/gated-content.svg)
</Diagram>

> The shopper requests a page on the storefront. The request is sent to the CDN (Fastly in this case), which then routes it to the Edge Delivery Service (EDS). EDS returns the requested document with headers defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file. Fastly Compute checks whether the requested page is considered gated content based on the headers returned by EDS or by comparing it with a hardcoded list of gated content. If the header defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file is not present, or if the requested URL is not in the hardcoded gated content list, the request is processed normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shopper requests a page on the storefront. The request is sent to the CDN (Fastly in this case), which then routes it to Edge Delivery Services. Edge Delivery Services returns the requested document with headers defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file. Fastly Compute checks whether the requested page is considered gated content based on the headers returned by Edge Delivery Services or by comparing it with a hardcoded list of gated content. If the header defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file is not present, or if the requested URL is not in the hardcoded gated content list, the request is processed normally.
```

Reviewer: Don't abbreviate Edge Delivery Services

If the requested page is gated, the Fastly Compute code uses the customer token to construct an authorization request to Adobe Commerce. If the customer is authenticated, the request is allowed to pass through. If the customer is not authenticated, the request is redirected to a fallback page, such as a login page.

## Example implementation

> You can [download a sample solution](/samples/fastly-compute-sample.zip) that provides an outline of how to implement gated content using Fastly Compute. This sample is based on Fastly's [Default starter kit for JavaScript](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/solutions/starters/compute-starter-kit-javascript-default/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [download a sample solution](/samples/fastly-compute-sample.zip) that provides an outline of how to implement gated content using Fastly Compute. This sample is based on Fastly's [Default starter kit for JavaScript](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/solutions/starters/compute-starter-kit-javascript-default/).
```

  * `url` - The path to the gated content. Wildcards are supported.
  * `key` - Any key that you want to use to evaluate whether the content is gated.
  * `value` - `True` or other value to be evaluated.

* **Create custom code**. CDNs typically do not provide the ability to evaluate whether a user is authenticated. As a result, you must implement an auxiliary service, such as Fastly Compute, Amazon Lambda, or Cloudflare workers to perform the evaluation. This code must be able to send an authentication request to Adobe Commerce and process the result. The request is typically a simple GraphQL query, such as the `customer` query, but you can use any query or mutation that checks if the customer is authenticated.

## Workflow

The following diagram illustrates the workflow when gated content is enabled.

<Diagram caption="Gated content workflow">
![Gated content workflow](@images/gated-content.svg)
</Diagram>

> The shopper requests any page on the storefront. The storefront sends the request to the CDN (Fastly, in this case), which in turn routes the request to Edge Delivery Service. EDS inserts the header defined in the key column of the `header` or `header.xlsx` file. The Fastly Compute code checks if the requested URL is in the list of gated content. If the URL is not in the list, the request is processed normally. 

Reviewer 2: I guess we might consider to slightly repharse this paragraph like this:

```suggestion
The shopper requests a page on the storefront. The request is sent to the CDN (Fastly in this case), which then routes it to the Edge Delivery Service (EDS). EDS returns the requested document with headers defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file. Fastly Compute checks whether the requested page is considered gated content based on the headers returned by EDS or by comparing it with a hardcoded list of gated content. If the header defined in the `header` or `header.xlsx` file is not present, or the requested URL is not in the hardcoded gated content list, the request is processed normally.
```

If the requested page is gated, the Fastly Compute code uses the customer token to construct an authorization request to Adobe Commerce. If the customer is authenticated, the request is allowed to pass through. If the customer is not authenticated, the request is redirected to a fallback page, such as a login page.

> The system checks if the requested URL is in the list of gated content. If the URL is not in the list, the request is processed normally. If the URL is in the list, the system checks if the customer is authenticated. If the customer is authenticated, the request is allowed to pass through. If the customer is not authenticated, the request is redirected to a login page.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph seems duplicating content from previous two 🤔
